README.md, before:

[<img align="right" src="misc/wisun-logo.png" width="300" alt="Wi-SUN Logo">][wisun]

Wi-SUN Linux Border Router
==========================

The goal of this project is to implement the [Wi-SUN protocol][wisun] on Linux
devices and allow the use of Linux hosts as Border Routers for Wi-SUN networks.
For the time being, the implementation is mostly a port of Silicon Labs'
embedded stack on a Linux host. However, the ultimate goal is to replace
services currently provided by the stack with native Linux services.

[wisun]: https://wi-sun.org/

# Quick Start Guide

## Prerequisites

This project provides the `wsbrd` daemon, which is responsible for running the
Wi-SUN protocol high-level layers. It is paired with an RF device RCP (Radio
Co-Processor) handling the low-level layers and RF activities. The RCP devices
currently supported are EFR32FG12, EFR32MG12, EFR32FG25, EFR32FG28, and
EFR32ZG28.

The RCP needs to be flashed with a specific firmware to communicate with the
daemon. This firmware is provided in binary format. [Application Note 1332][an1332]
explains how to build RCP firmware and flash it.

The communication between the Linux host and the RCP is supported through a
serial link (UART). On Silicon Labs mainboards, this serial link is provided
over USB. The `/dev/ttyACMx` device should appear when you connect the
mainboard.

[docker]: https://github.com/SiliconLabs/wisun-br-linux-docker
[an1332]: https://www.silabs.com/documents/public/application-notes/an1332-wi-sun-network-configuration.pdf

## Cloning wisun-br-linux

If it is not yet done, start by cloning this repository:

    git clone https://github.com/SiliconLabs/wisun-br-linux.git

## Compiling

The build requires `mbedTLS` (> 2.18), `libnl-3`, `libnl-route-3`, and `cmake`.
`libcap` and `libsystemd` are also recommended (note that `libsystemd` can be
replaced by `elogind` if you do not want to pull `systemd`). Optionally, you can
also install Rust/Cargo.

We also encourage the use of Ninja as the `cmake` back-end.

On Debian and its derivatives, install the necessary dependencies (except for
mbedTLS) with:

    sudo apt-get install libnl-3-dev libnl-route-3-dev libcap-dev \
        libsystemd-dev cmake ninja-build pkg-config lrzsz

To additionally compile `wsbrd_cli`:

    sudo apt-get install cargo libdbus-1-dev
    cargo fetch --manifest-path=tools/wsbrd_cli/Cargo.toml

Debian does not (yet) package MbedTLS >= 3.0 so you must build it from
sources. This project does not support versions < 3.0.

    git clone --branch=v3.6.2 https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbedtls
    cd mbedtls
    cmake -G Ninja .
    ninja
    sudo ninja install

`MbedTLS` is highly customizable. The default configuration is sane. However, if
you want a stripped-down version, you can configure it with the configuration
file provided in `examples/mbedtls-config.h`:

    CFLAGS="-I$FULL_PATH_TO_WSBRD_SRC/examples -DMBEDTLS_CONFIG_FILE='<mbedtls-config.h>'" cmake -G Ninja .

> This configuration file has been written for `mbedtls` 3.0. Adapt it if
> necessary.

Optionally, `wsbrd` can be compiled with support for [Silabs
CPC](#should-i-use-cpc-or-plain-uart). To install Silabs CPC library:

    git clone https://github.com/SiliconLabs/cpc_daemon.git
    cd cpc_daemon
    cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja
    ninja -C build
    sudo ninja -C build install
    sudo ldconfig

Then, you can compile `wsbrd` with:

    cd wisun-br-linux/
    cmake -G Ninja .
    ninja

Finally, install the service with:

    sudo ninja install

> No script for any start-up service is provided for now.

## Launching

You must provide a configuration file to the Wi-SUN border router. A commented
example is available in `/usr/local/share/doc/wsbrd/examples/wsbrd.conf`.

    cp -r /usr/local/share/doc/wsbrd/examples .
    <edit examples/wsbrd.conf>

You can copy and edit it. You will notice that you need certificates and keys to
authenticate your network's Wi-SUN nodes. The generation of these files is
described in [[Generating the Wi-SUN Public Key Infrastructure]]. For now, you
can use the certificate examples installed in
`/usr/local/share/doc/wsbrd/examples/`.

You also must provide the path of the UART representing your RCP device.

Finally, launch `wsbrd` with:

    sudo wsbrd -F examples/wsbrd.conf -u /dev/ttyACM0

`wsbrd` lists the useful options in the output of `wsbrd --help`.

# Tools

A suite of tools is provided for various tasks around `wsbrd` and its RCP. For
more detail, refer to the `README.md` present in the relevant source folder
(under [`tools/`](tools)), or the `--help` message output by the application.
Some of these are not compiled by default and require setting
`COMPILE_DEVTOOLS=ON` when configuring the project with CMake.

| Application    | Description                                                   |
|----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| `wsbrd_cli`    | A simple application for querying the D-Bus interface         |
| `wsbrd-fwup`   | A tool for updating the RCP firmware                          |
| `wsbrd-fuzz`   | A tool for fuzzing and debugging `wsbrd`                      |
| `wshwping`     | A tool for testing the serial link                            |
| `wstbu`        | An implementation of the [Wi-SUN Test Bed Unit REST API][tbu] |
| `silabs-ws-dc` | [Silicon Labs Wi-SUN Direct Connect][dc] Linux client         |

[tbu]: https://bitbucket.org/wisunalliance/test-bed-unit-api
[dc]: https://docs.silabs.com/wisun/latest/wisun-direct-connect

# Using `wsbrd_cli` and the D-Bus Interface

`wsbrd_cli` is a small utility to retrieve the status of the Wi-SUN network. Its
usage is described in the output of `wsbrd_cli --help`. The tool relies on the
D-Bus interface provided by `wsbrd`, which is described in `DBUS.md`.

# Generating the Wi-SUN Public Key Infrastructure

The certificate generation process is described in section 6.5.1 of the Wi-SUN
specification. It uses the standard X.509 certificate format. Some fields and
algorithms are enforced.

The process to get official certificates is described on the [Wi-SUN alliance
Web site][cert] (restricted access).

[cert]: https://wi-sun.org/cyber-security-certificates/

# Using an External DHCPv6 Server

`wsbrd` provides a built-in DHCPv6 server. However, it is still possible to use
an external DHCPv6 server. If the DHCP server runs on a remote host, you need to
launch a DHCPv6 relay.

`wsbrd` has been tested with ISC DHCP and dnsmasq. Both projects provide DHCP
server and DHCP relay implementations.

First you have to deactivate the internal dhcp server of `wsbrd` in wbsrd.conf:

    internal_dhcp = false

Obviously, the DHCP server/relay needs a network interface to run. You can
launch the DHCP server/relay just after `wsbrd` (you have to ensure the DHCP
service is started before Wi-SUN nodes connect, but they will not connect before
at least several dozen seconds) or [create the interface before launching
`wsbrd`](#running-wsbrd-without-root-privilege).

## Using `dnsmasq`

Because of [this issue][dnsmasq], `dnsmasq` is supported from the version 2.87.

[dnsmasq]: https://www.mail-archive.com/dnsmasq-discuss@lists.thekelleys.org.uk/msg16394.html

### Using `dnsmasq` as DHCP Server

`dnsmasq` does not need any specific options. A classical invocation can be
used. We suggest increasing the lease time (`336h`) and disabling DNS server
(`-p 0`):

    sudo dnsmasq -d -C /dev/null -p 0 -i tun0 --dhcp-range 2001:db8::,2001:db8::ffff,64,336h

### Using `dnsmasq` as DHCP Relay

To start the DHCP relay, you have to bind the `Wi-SUN` and the upstream network
interfaces (`tun0` and `eth0`). Then specify the IP addresses of the DHCP server
(`2001:db8:a::1`) and of the `wsbrd` interface (`2001:db8:b::1`) to the
`--dhcp-relay` option. You can also disable the DNS server (which is useless in
this case) with `-p 0`:

    sudo dnsmasq -d -C /dev/null -p 0 -i tun0,eth0 --dhcp-relay 2001:db8:a::1,2001:db8:b::1

## Using `isc-dhcp`

Note that ISC DHCP needs to be patched to comply with Wi-SUN specification (for
relay and server). We provide the needed patches in `misc/`.

### Using `isc-dhcpd` as DHCP Server

`isc-dhcpd` will not start if the lease file does not exist:

    sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/dhcpd/
    sudo touch /var/lib/dhcpd/dhcpd.leases

We provide a sample configuration file for isc-dhcp. See `examples/dhcpd.conf`
for details:

    sudo dhcpd -6 --no-pid -lf /var/lib/dhcpd/dhcpd.leases -cf examples/dhcpd.conf tun0

### Using `isc-dhcrelay` as DHCP Relay

To start the DHCP relay, you have to provide the `wsbrd` network interface
(`tun0`), the address of the DHCP server (`2001:db8::1` in the example below),
and the network interface associated with this address (see [dhcprelay
manpage][dhcrelay]):

    sudo dhcrelay -6 --no-pid -l tun0 -u 2001:db8::1%eth0

[dhcrelay]: https://linux.die.net/man/8/dhcrelay

# Running `wsbrd` Without Root Privilege

To run `wsbrd` without root permissions, first ensure you have permission to
access the UART device (you will have to logout/login after this command):

    sudo usermod -aG dialout YOUR_USER

Then, you have to take over the creation of the network interface. This process
can also be useful to set up unusual configurations, or if you need to access
tun interface before `wsbrd` is launched.

First, create the network interface to give your user the permission to use
it:

    sudo ip tuntap add mode tun tun0 user YOUR_USER

The MTU must be set to 1280 bytes to comply with 802.15.4g:

    sudo ip link set dev tun0 mtu 1280

Silicon Labs suggests reducing the queue size of the interface to avoid huge
latencies:

    sudo ip link set dev tun0 txqueuelen 10

The Wi-SUN interface cannot be configured through SLAAC, so do not pollute your
network with unnecessary Router Solicitations:

    sudo sysctl net.ipv6.conf.tun0.accept_ra=0

Wi-SUN needs a link-address matching the EUI64 of the node. Therefore, Linux
should not generate any link-local address by itself.

    sudo sysctl net.ipv6.conf.tun0.addr_gen_mode=1

Then, `wsbrd` can automatically set up the IP addresses (Global and Link-Local)
of the interface. However, to run without root privileges, you have to do it
yourself.

Disable the `tun_autoconf` parameter in `wsbrd`'s configuration. Then add IP
addresses:

    sudo ip addr add dev tun0 fe80::200:5eef:1000:1/64
    sudo ip addr add dev tun0 2001:db8::200:5eef:1000:1/64

The 64 least significant bits of these addresses must match with the EUI-64 of
the RCP (you can check logs of `wsbrd` to find it).

The network mask of the GUA must match with the `ipv6_prefix` parameter.

Finally, bring up the interface:

    sudo ip link set dev tun0 up

Also note, the internal DHCP will not be able to bind ports 546 and 547 without
root privilege. You can run an external DHCP server (with `internal_dhcp=false`)
or you can configure your system to allow normal users to bind port 546 and
above:

    sudo sysctl net.ipv4.ip_unprivileged_port_start=546

Finally, you can run `wsbrd`.

# Using IPv6 Transparent Proxy

Transparent IPv6 proxy provides IPv6 connectivity to the Wi-SUN
network without changing configuration of existing IPv6 infrastructure.
Once enabled:
   - The Wi-SUN nodes will appear as classical hosts on the network.
   - The other hosts on the network will be able to reach them.
   - The Wi-SUN nodes will be able to reach the Internet through the gateway of
     the host.
   - If the upstream gateway provides global addresses and there is no firewall
     on the way (which is uncommon), hosts on the Internet can reach the Wi-SUN
     nodes.

To enable this feature:
   - The `neighbor_proxy` parameter must be set to the name of the upstream
     network interface.
   - The `ipv6_prefix` parameter must be set to the same prefix as the hosting
     network.
   - IPv6 forward must be enabled on the host (with `sysctl
     net.ipv6.conf.all.forwarding=1`). Note that [enabling forwarding per
     interface does not work][ip-fwd].


Under the hood, when `neighbor_proxy` is in use:
   - NDP proxy (`/proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/*/proxy_ndp`) is enabled.
   - Wi-SUN nodes are automatically added to the neighbor proxy list (user can
     dump them with `ip -6 neigh show proxy`).
   - IPv6 routes are automatically added for the Wi-SUN nodes (user can dump
     them with `ip -6 route show`).
   - The delay before answering multicast neighbor solicitations
     (`/proc/sys/net/ipv6/neigh/*/proxy_delay`) is set to 0.


[ip-fwd]: https://docs.kernel.org/networking/ip-sysctl.html#proc-sys-net-ipv6-variables

# Bugs and Limitations

## Should I Use CPC or Plain UART?

CPC protocol relies on an external service (CPCd). Therefore, plain UART allows
an easier integration for simple setups. However, CPC offers some features:

  - Support for SPI bus.
  - Support for encrypted link with the RCP.
  - Support for Dynamic MultiProtocol (DMP). Thus, CPCd can share the RCP
    between several network stacks (that is, Bluetooth, Zigbee, OpenThread, and
    Wi-SUN)

## I Cannot Connect FAN 1.0 devices

Wi-SUN FAN 1.1 is putting an emphasis on Low Function Nodes (LFNs).
Unfortunately, the way the standard was written does not allow to safely mix
FAN 1.0 devices with LFNs. The default configuration provided allows LFNs but
refuses FAN 1.0 routers. Users need to explicitly set `enable_ffn10 = yes` in
their configuration in order to connect legacy devices.

## I get `error inflating zlib stream; class=Zlib (5)` During Compilation

The last update of GitHub seems incompatible with the git version bundled with
Rust 1.45. The issue and the workaround are described [here][zlib-issue] and
the root cause is solved [here][zlib-solve].

Before launching `cmake`, you can run:

   export CARGO_NET_GIT_FETCH_WITH_CLI=true

[zlib-issue]: https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/10303
[zlib-solve]: https://github.com/libgit2/libgit2/pull/5740

## I Cannot Connect to DBus Interface

First, check you have followed the installation process. Especially, check you
have run `ninja install`.

There are several DBus instances on your system:
  - One system instance
  - An instance for each user

By default, `wsbrd` tries to use the `user` instance and falls back to `system`
instance.

The DBus session used is shown in the first lines of the log output:

    Successfully registered to system DBus

Then, use `busctl --system` or `busctl --user` accordingly.

Note that if you use `sudo` to launch `wsbrd` as root user, it will use the
`system` instance.

You can enforce the session used with an environment variable
`DBUS_STARTER_BUS_TYPE=system` or `DBUS_STARTER_BUS_TYPE=user`. If you use
`sudo`, you must define this variable inside the `sudo` environment:

    sudo env DBUS_STARTER_BUS_TYPE=system wsbrd ...

## LFNs and the D-Bus interface

Low function nodes (LFN) that are connected directly to the border router do
not appear as having parent when querrying the D-Bus `Nodes` API. This is due
to them being routed differently, and will be fixed in an future version. Tools
like `wsbrd_cli` and the web GUI that rely on this D-Bus API are affected by
this limitation.

## I Cannot Communicate With My Nodes Right After a Restart

Upon restart, `wsbrd` restores its IPv6 neighbor cache and its RPL routes from
storage. However, it has lost its neighbors' frequency hopping timing
information. Therefore, right after a restart, downstream traffic is not
possible. These frequency hopping timing information will be restored once
`wsbrd` receives a PAN Configuration or a Data frame from each neighbor. From
there, downstream traffic within the network will resume. Note that to be able
to send Data Frames upward, `wsbrd`'s neighbors must have updated `wsbrd`'s
frequency hopping timing information as well. Without this, upstream traffic
will not be possible either.

Finally, it is important to know that communication with neighboring LFN devices
cannot be resumed the same way after a restart. LFN devices expect to receive an
LFN Time Sync (LTS) Frame every so often depending on your network parameters.
After a restart, since `wsbrd` does not have the necessary frequency hopping
timing information to send such frames, LFN devices will consider that their
parent is not present anymore and perform a full join procedure.

## I Have Issues when Trying to Send UDP Data

Path MTU Discovery works as expected on the Wi-SUN network. The Border Router
replies with `ICMPv6/Packet Too Big` if necessary. (Remember that in IPv6,
routers cannot fragment packets, therefore the sender is responsible for the
size of the packet). Direct neighbors of the Border Router can receive frames up
to 1504 bytes, while the other nodes can receive frames up to 1280 bytes.

If you try to send a UDP frame larger than the MTU, there are two
options:

  - The packet has been sent with `IPV6_DONTFRAG`, and the operating system will
    return an error.
  - The packet is not marked with `IPV6_DONTFRAG`, and the operating system will
    fragment the packet.

On the receiver, the buffer must be large enough (up to 64 kB) to handle the
fragmented packet. This feature is sometimes limited on embedded devices.
[IPv6][rfc8200-5] requires at least 1500 bytes available during reception, and
warns on sending more:

> A node must be able to accept a fragmented packet that, after reassembly, is
> as large as 1500 octets.  A node is permitted to accept fragmented packets
> that reassemble to more than 1500 octets. An upper-layer protocol or
> application that depends on IPv6 fragmentation to send packets larger than
> the MTU of a path should not send packets larger than 1500 octets unless it
> has assurance that the destination is capable of reassembling packets of that
> larger size.

Typically, on Silicon Labs nodes, the default fragmentation buffer size is 1504
bytes. Therefore, if you send a buffer greater than 1504 bytes (including IP
and MAC headers), the packet will be silently dropped.

As another consequence, the commonly used tool `nc` cannot be used to stress
Wi-SUN networks with a continuous data stream, as `nc` sends 16 kB-long UDP
when fed an endless source such as `/dev/urandom`. There is no option to reduce
frame size (or to enable `IPV6_DONTFRAG`).

Therefore, sending UDP packets with `IPV6_DONTFRAG` is recommended. Use
`IPV6_PATHMTU` and `IPV6_RECVPATHMTU` to determine the optimal packet size.
Read [RFC 8900][rfc8900] for more insights on the question.

[rfc8200-5]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8200.html#section-5
[rfc8900]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8900.html

<br clear="right"/><!-- Right align the Wi-SUN Logo -->

Commit message:

doc: update instructions to run wsbrd without root privileges
Since the usage of raw sockets was introduced, this section of the
documentation has not been up to date.

Co-authored-by: Mathis Marion <mathis.marion@silabs.com>

README.md, after:

[<img align="right" src="misc/wisun-logo.png" width="300" alt="Wi-SUN Logo">][wisun]

Wi-SUN Linux Border Router
==========================

The goal of this project is to implement the [Wi-SUN protocol][wisun] on Linux
devices and allow the use of Linux hosts as Border Routers for Wi-SUN networks.
For the time being, the implementation is mostly a port of Silicon Labs'
embedded stack on a Linux host. However, the ultimate goal is to replace
services currently provided by the stack with native Linux services.

[wisun]: https://wi-sun.org/

# Quick Start Guide

## Prerequisites

This project provides the `wsbrd` daemon, which is responsible for running the
Wi-SUN protocol high-level layers. It is paired with an RF device RCP (Radio
Co-Processor) handling the low-level layers and RF activities. The RCP devices
currently supported are EFR32FG12, EFR32MG12, EFR32FG25, EFR32FG28, and
EFR32ZG28.

The RCP needs to be flashed with a specific firmware to communicate with the
daemon. This firmware is provided in binary format. [Application Note 1332][an1332]
explains how to build RCP firmware and flash it.

The communication between the Linux host and the RCP is supported through a
serial link (UART). On Silicon Labs mainboards, this serial link is provided
over USB. The `/dev/ttyACMx` device should appear when you connect the
mainboard.

[docker]: https://github.com/SiliconLabs/wisun-br-linux-docker
[an1332]: https://www.silabs.com/documents/public/application-notes/an1332-wi-sun-network-configuration.pdf

## Cloning wisun-br-linux

If it is not yet done, start by cloning this repository:

    git clone https://github.com/SiliconLabs/wisun-br-linux.git

## Compiling

The build requires `mbedTLS` (> 2.18), `libnl-3`, `libnl-route-3`, and `cmake`.
`libcap` and `libsystemd` are also recommended (note that `libsystemd` can be
replaced by `elogind` if you do not want to pull `systemd`). Optionally, you can
also install Rust/Cargo.

We also encourage the use of Ninja as the `cmake` back-end.

On Debian and its derivatives, install the necessary dependencies (except for
mbedTLS) with:

    sudo apt-get install libnl-3-dev libnl-route-3-dev libcap-dev \
        libsystemd-dev cmake ninja-build pkg-config lrzsz

To additionally compile `wsbrd_cli`:

    sudo apt-get install cargo libdbus-1-dev
    cargo fetch --manifest-path=tools/wsbrd_cli/Cargo.toml

Debian does not (yet) package MbedTLS >= 3.0 so you must build it from
sources. This project does not support versions < 3.0.

    git clone --branch=v3.6.2 https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbedtls
    cd mbedtls
    cmake -G Ninja .
    ninja
    sudo ninja install

`MbedTLS` is highly customizable. The default configuration is sane. However, if
you want a stripped-down version, you can configure it with the configuration
file provided in `examples/mbedtls-config.h`:

    CFLAGS="-I$FULL_PATH_TO_WSBRD_SRC/examples -DMBEDTLS_CONFIG_FILE='<mbedtls-config.h>'" cmake -G Ninja .

> This configuration file has been written for `mbedtls` 3.0. Adapt it if
> necessary.

Optionally, `wsbrd` can be compiled with support for [Silabs
CPC](#should-i-use-cpc-or-plain-uart). To install Silabs CPC library:

    git clone https://github.com/SiliconLabs/cpc_daemon.git
    cd cpc_daemon
    cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja
    ninja -C build
    sudo ninja -C build install
    sudo ldconfig

Then, you can compile `wsbrd` with:

    cd wisun-br-linux/
    cmake -G Ninja .
    ninja

Finally, install the service with:

    sudo ninja install

> No script for any start-up service is provided for now.

## Launching

You must provide a configuration file to the Wi-SUN border router. A commented
example is available in `/usr/local/share/doc/wsbrd/examples/wsbrd.conf`.

    cp -r /usr/local/share/doc/wsbrd/examples .
    <edit examples/wsbrd.conf>

You can copy and edit it. You will notice that you need certificates and keys to
authenticate your network's Wi-SUN nodes. The generation of these files is
described in [[Generating the Wi-SUN Public Key Infrastructure]]. For now, you
can use the certificate examples installed in
`/usr/local/share/doc/wsbrd/examples/`.

You also must provide the path of the UART representing your RCP device.

Finally, launch `wsbrd` with:

    sudo wsbrd -F examples/wsbrd.conf -u /dev/ttyACM0

`wsbrd` lists the useful options in the output of `wsbrd --help`.

# Tools

A suite of tools is provided for various tasks around `wsbrd` and its RCP. For
more detail, refer to the `README.md` present in the relevant source folder
(under [`tools/`](tools)), or the `--help` message output by the application.
Some of these are not compiled by default and require setting
`COMPILE_DEVTOOLS=ON` when configuring the project with CMake.

| Application    | Description                                                   |
|----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| `wsbrd_cli`    | A simple application for querying the D-Bus interface         |
| `wsbrd-fwup`   | A tool for updating the RCP firmware                          |
| `wsbrd-fuzz`   | A tool for fuzzing and debugging `wsbrd`                      |
| `wshwping`     | A tool for testing the serial link                            |
| `wstbu`        | An implementation of the [Wi-SUN Test Bed Unit REST API][tbu] |
| `silabs-ws-dc` | [Silicon Labs Wi-SUN Direct Connect][dc] Linux client         |

[tbu]: https://bitbucket.org/wisunalliance/test-bed-unit-api
[dc]: https://docs.silabs.com/wisun/latest/wisun-direct-connect

# Using `wsbrd_cli` and the D-Bus Interface

`wsbrd_cli` is a small utility to retrieve the status of the Wi-SUN network. Its
usage is described in the output of `wsbrd_cli --help`. The tool relies on the
D-Bus interface provided by `wsbrd`, which is described in `DBUS.md`.

# Generating the Wi-SUN Public Key Infrastructure

The certificate generation process is described in section 6.5.1 of the Wi-SUN
specification. It uses the standard X.509 certificate format. Some fields and
algorithms are enforced.

The process to get official certificates is described on the [Wi-SUN alliance
Web site][cert] (restricted access).

[cert]: https://wi-sun.org/cyber-security-certificates/

# Using an External DHCPv6 Server

`wsbrd` provides a built-in DHCPv6 server. However, it is still possible to use
an external DHCPv6 server. If the DHCP server runs on a remote host, you need to
launch a DHCPv6 relay.

`wsbrd` has been tested with ISC DHCP and dnsmasq. Both projects provide DHCP
server and DHCP relay implementations.

First you have to deactivate the internal dhcp server of `wsbrd` in wbsrd.conf:

    internal_dhcp = false

Obviously, the DHCP server/relay needs a network interface to run. You can
launch the DHCP server/relay just after `wsbrd` (you have to ensure the DHCP
service is started before Wi-SUN nodes connect, but they will not connect before
at least several dozen seconds) or [create the interface before launching
`wsbrd`](#running-wsbrd-without-root-privilege).

## Using `dnsmasq`

Because of [this issue][dnsmasq], `dnsmasq` is supported from the version 2.87.

[dnsmasq]: https://www.mail-archive.com/dnsmasq-discuss@lists.thekelleys.org.uk/msg16394.html

### Using `dnsmasq` as DHCP Server

`dnsmasq` does not need any specific options. A classical invocation can be
used. We suggest increasing the lease time (`336h`) and disabling DNS server
(`-p 0`):

    sudo dnsmasq -d -C /dev/null -p 0 -i tun0 --dhcp-range 2001:db8::,2001:db8::ffff,64,336h

### Using `dnsmasq` as DHCP Relay

To start the DHCP relay, you have to bind the `Wi-SUN` and the upstream network
interfaces (`tun0` and `eth0`). Then specify the IP addresses of the DHCP server
(`2001:db8:a::1`) and of the `wsbrd` interface (`2001:db8:b::1`) to the
`--dhcp-relay` option. You can also disable the DNS server (which is useless in
this case) with `-p 0`:

    sudo dnsmasq -d -C /dev/null -p 0 -i tun0,eth0 --dhcp-relay 2001:db8:a::1,2001:db8:b::1

## Using `isc-dhcp`

Note that ISC DHCP needs to be patched to comply with Wi-SUN specification (for
relay and server). We provide the needed patches in `misc/`.

### Using `isc-dhcpd` as DHCP Server

`isc-dhcpd` will not start if the lease file does not exist:

    sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/dhcpd/
    sudo touch /var/lib/dhcpd/dhcpd.leases

We provide a sample configuration file for isc-dhcp. See `examples/dhcpd.conf`
for details:

    sudo dhcpd -6 --no-pid -lf /var/lib/dhcpd/dhcpd.leases -cf examples/dhcpd.conf tun0

### Using `isc-dhcrelay` as DHCP Relay

To start the DHCP relay, you have to provide the `wsbrd` network interface
(`tun0`), the address of the DHCP server (`2001:db8::1` in the example below),
and the network interface associated with this address (see [dhcprelay
manpage][dhcrelay]):

    sudo dhcrelay -6 --no-pid -l tun0 -u 2001:db8::1%eth0

[dhcrelay]: https://linux.die.net/man/8/dhcrelay

# Running `wsbrd` Without Root Privilege

The recommended method to run `wsbrd` is to start it as root, let it initialize
necessary resources as root, and then switch to a less privileged user using
the `user` and `group` parameters, following the principle of least privilege.
If for some reason this method is not desired, the following steps should
enable running `wsbrd` without being the root user.

To run `wsbrd` without root permissions, first ensure you have permission to
access the UART device (you will have to logout/login after this command):

    sudo usermod -aG dialout YOUR_USER

Then, `wsbrd` needs some permissions to a initialize network resources
(sockets, virtual interface, addresses...). The following Linux
[capabilities][capabilities] are required:

  - `CAP_NET_ADMIN`: Create TUN interface, manage addresses, routes and
    neighbor proxy entries.
  - `CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE`: Open sockets on privileged ports (DHCPv6).
  - `CAP_NET_RAW`: Join multicast groups, open ICMPv6 socket for RPL.

They can be assigned to the `wsbrd` binary using:

    sudo setcap "cap_net_admin,cap_net_bind_service,cap_net_raw=+ep" $(which wsbrd)

[capabilities]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/capabilities.7.html

Note that this is comparable to making wsbrd a "setuid" binary, but with
selected permissions. You can now run `wsbrd` without root privileges.

While giving those permissions will enable `wsbrd` to create its own network
interface, you can also choose to configure it manually. This process can be
useful to set up unusual configurations, or if you need to access tun interface
before `wsbrd` is launched. Note that `wsbrd` will still need the
aforementioned privileges to function whether you manually configure its
network interface or not.

First, create the network interface to give your user the permission to use
it:

    sudo ip tuntap add mode tun tun0 user YOUR_USER

The MTU must be set to 1280 bytes to comply with 802.15.4g:

    sudo ip link set dev tun0 mtu 1280

Silicon Labs suggests reducing the queue size of the interface to avoid huge
latencies:

    sudo ip link set dev tun0 txqueuelen 10

The Wi-SUN interface cannot be configured through SLAAC, so do not pollute your
network with unnecessary Router Solicitations:

    sudo sysctl net.ipv6.conf.tun0.accept_ra=0

Wi-SUN needs a link-address matching the EUI64 of the node. Therefore, Linux
should not generate any link-local address by itself.

    sudo sysctl net.ipv6.conf.tun0.addr_gen_mode=1

Then, `wsbrd` can automatically set up the IP addresses (Global and Link-Local)
of the interface. However, to run without root privileges, you have to do it
yourself.

Disable the `tun_autoconf` parameter in `wsbrd`'s configuration. Then add IP
addresses:

    sudo ip addr add dev tun0 fe80::200:5eef:1000:1/64
    sudo ip addr add dev tun0 2001:db8::200:5eef:1000:1/64

The 64 least significant bits of these addresses must match with the EUI-64 of
the RCP (you can check logs of `wsbrd` to find it).

The network mask of the GUA must match with the `ipv6_prefix` parameter.

Finally, bring up the interface:

    sudo ip link set dev tun0 up

Finally, you can run `wsbrd`.

# Using IPv6 Transparent Proxy

Transparent IPv6 proxy provides IPv6 connectivity to the Wi-SUN
network without changing configuration of existing IPv6 infrastructure.
Once enabled:
   - The Wi-SUN nodes will appear as classical hosts on the network.
   - The other hosts on the network will be able to reach them.
   - The Wi-SUN nodes will be able to reach the Internet through the gateway of
     the host.
   - If the upstream gateway provides global addresses and there is no firewall
     on the way (which is uncommon), hosts on the Internet can reach the Wi-SUN
     nodes.

To enable this feature:
   - The `neighbor_proxy` parameter must be set to the name of the upstream
     network interface.
   - The `ipv6_prefix` parameter must be set to the same prefix as the hosting
     network.
   - IPv6 forward must be enabled on the host (with `sysctl
     net.ipv6.conf.all.forwarding=1`). Note that [enabling forwarding per
     interface does not work][ip-fwd].


Under the hood, when `neighbor_proxy` is in use:
   - NDP proxy (`/proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/*/proxy_ndp`) is enabled.
   - Wi-SUN nodes are automatically added to the neighbor proxy list (user can
     dump them with `ip -6 neigh show proxy`).
   - IPv6 routes are automatically added for the Wi-SUN nodes (user can dump
     them with `ip -6 route show`).
   - The delay before answering multicast neighbor solicitations
     (`/proc/sys/net/ipv6/neigh/*/proxy_delay`) is set to 0.


[ip-fwd]: https://docs.kernel.org/networking/ip-sysctl.html#proc-sys-net-ipv6-variables

# Bugs and Limitations

## Should I Use CPC or Plain UART?

CPC protocol relies on an external service (CPCd). Therefore, plain UART allows
an easier integration for simple setups. However, CPC offers some features:

  - Support for SPI bus.
  - Support for encrypted link with the RCP.
  - Support for Dynamic MultiProtocol (DMP). Thus, CPCd can share the RCP
    between several network stacks (that is, Bluetooth, Zigbee, OpenThread, and
    Wi-SUN)

## I Cannot Connect FAN 1.0 devices

Wi-SUN FAN 1.1 is putting an emphasis on Low Function Nodes (LFNs).
Unfortunately, the way the standard was written does not allow to safely mix
FAN 1.0 devices with LFNs. The default configuration provided allows LFNs but
refuses FAN 1.0 routers. Users need to explicitly set `enable_ffn10 = yes` in
their configuration in order to connect legacy devices.

## I get `error inflating zlib stream; class=Zlib (5)` During Compilation

The last update of GitHub seems incompatible with the git version bundled with
Rust 1.45. The issue and the workaround are described [here][zlib-issue] and
the root cause is solved [here][zlib-solve].

Before launching `cmake`, you can run:

   export CARGO_NET_GIT_FETCH_WITH_CLI=true

[zlib-issue]: https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/10303
[zlib-solve]: https://github.com/libgit2/libgit2/pull/5740

## I Cannot Connect to DBus Interface

First, check you have followed the installation process. Especially, check you
have run `ninja install`.

There are several DBus instances on your system:
  - One system instance
  - An instance for each user

By default, `wsbrd` tries to use the `user` instance and falls back to `system`
instance.

The DBus session used is shown in the first lines of the log output:

    Successfully registered to system DBus

Then, use `busctl --system` or `busctl --user` accordingly.

Note that if you use `sudo` to launch `wsbrd` as root user, it will use the
`system` instance.

You can enforce the session used with an environment variable
`DBUS_STARTER_BUS_TYPE=system` or `DBUS_STARTER_BUS_TYPE=user`. If you use
`sudo`, you must define this variable inside the `sudo` environment:

    sudo env DBUS_STARTER_BUS_TYPE=system wsbrd ...

## LFNs and the D-Bus interface

Low function nodes (LFN) that are connected directly to the border router do
not appear as having parent when querrying the D-Bus `Nodes` API. This is due
to them being routed differently, and will be fixed in an future version. Tools
like `wsbrd_cli` and the web GUI that rely on this D-Bus API are affected by
this limitation.

## I Cannot Communicate With My Nodes Right After a Restart

Upon restart, `wsbrd` restores its IPv6 neighbor cache and its RPL routes from
storage. However, it has lost its neighbors' frequency hopping timing
information. Therefore, right after a restart, downstream traffic is not
possible. These frequency hopping timing information will be restored once
`wsbrd` receives a PAN Configuration or a Data frame from each neighbor. From
there, downstream traffic within the network will resume. Note that to be able
to send Data Frames upward, `wsbrd`'s neighbors must have updated `wsbrd`'s
frequency hopping timing information as well. Without this, upstream traffic
will not be possible either.

Finally, it is important to know that communication with neighboring LFN devices
cannot be resumed the same way after a restart. LFN devices expect to receive an
LFN Time Sync (LTS) Frame every so often depending on your network parameters.
After a restart, since `wsbrd` does not have the necessary frequency hopping
timing information to send such frames, LFN devices will consider that their
parent is not present anymore and perform a full join procedure.

## I Have Issues when Trying to Send UDP Data

Path MTU Discovery works as expected on the Wi-SUN network. The Border Router
replies with `ICMPv6/Packet Too Big` if necessary. (Remember that in IPv6,
routers cannot fragment packets, therefore the sender is responsible for the
size of the packet). Direct neighbors of the Border Router can receive frames up
to 1504 bytes, while the other nodes can receive frames up to 1280 bytes.

If you try to send a UDP frame larger than the MTU, there are two
options:

  - The packet has been sent with `IPV6_DONTFRAG`, and the operating system will
    return an error.
  - The packet is not marked with `IPV6_DONTFRAG`, and the operating system will
    fragment the packet.

On the receiver, the buffer must be large enough (up to 64 kB) to handle the
fragmented packet. This feature is sometimes limited on embedded devices.
[IPv6][rfc8200-5] requires at least 1500 bytes available during reception, and
warns on sending more:

> A node must be able to accept a fragmented packet that, after reassembly, is
> as large as 1500 octets.  A node is permitted to accept fragmented packets
> that reassemble to more than 1500 octets. An upper-layer protocol or
> application that depends on IPv6 fragmentation to send packets larger than
> the MTU of a path should not send packets larger than 1500 octets unless it
> has assurance that the destination is capable of reassembling packets of that
> larger size.

Typically, on Silicon Labs nodes, the default fragmentation buffer size is 1504
bytes. Therefore, if you send a buffer greater than 1504 bytes (including IP
and MAC headers), the packet will be silently dropped.

As another consequence, the commonly used tool `nc` cannot be used to stress
Wi-SUN networks with a continuous data stream, as `nc` sends 16 kB-long UDP
when fed an endless source such as `/dev/urandom`. There is no option to reduce
frame size (or to enable `IPV6_DONTFRAG`).

Therefore, sending UDP packets with `IPV6_DONTFRAG` is recommended. Use
`IPV6_PATHMTU` and `IPV6_RECVPATHMTU` to determine the optimal packet size.
Read [RFC 8900][rfc8900] for more insights on the question.

[rfc8200-5]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8200.html#section-5
[rfc8900]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8900.html

<br clear="right"/><!-- Right align the Wi-SUN Logo -->
