tools/tbu/dut/README.md, before:

# Device Under Test (DUT) instructions for the Silicon Labs Wi-SUN Linux Border Router

Before starting a test, make sure to delete any information stored from previous
executions:

    sudo wsbrd -DD

The border router should be started with 2 configuration files, one for the
base parameters, and one for the PHY parameters. For example:

    sudo wsbrd -F dut.conf -F na/chan-plan-2-dh1cf.conf

Configuration files are provided in [`tools/tbu/dut/`](/tools/tbu/dut):

  - [`dut.conf`](/tools/tbu/dut/dut.conf) contains the base parameters to be
    used with all tests. It should be edited according to the test bed
    configuration.
  - Sub-directories are provided for [North America][na], [Brazil][bz], and
    [Japan][jp]. Each file corresponds to a PHY definition from the Wi-SUN
    Conformance Tests Specification.

[na]: /tools/tbu/dut/na
[bz]: /tools/tbu/dut/bz
[jp]: /tools/tbu/dut/jp

Once the test has run, the border router can be stopped using Ctrl+C.

### IPv6 addresses

The Border Router DUT IPv6 addresses can be retrieved using:

    ip -6 addr show dev tunwsdut

### Multicast ICMPv6

The test `MULTICAST-ORIGINATOR-LBR-1` requires the following operation:

> Step 2: Vendor puts Border Router DUT into a mode where it would transmit a
> multicast ICMPv6 or UDP frame.

This is performed by the following command:

    ping -c 1 -I tunwsdut ff03::1

### GTK Lifecycle

The test `SEC-LIFECYCLE-2` requires the following operations:

A special configuration file [`sec/lifecycle.conf`][lifecycle] is provided to
configure the key lifetimes. It should be added to the command which starts the
border router, for example:

    sudo wsbrd -F dut.conf -F na/chan-plan-2-dh1cf.conf -F sec/lifecycle.conf

[lifecycle]: /tools/tbu/dut/sec/lifecycle.conf

### Pairwise Key Revocation

The test `SEC-REVOKE-GTK-1` requires the following operations:

A special configuration file [`sec/revoke.conf`][revoke] is provided to
configure the key lifetimes. It should be added to the command which starts the
border router, for example:

    sudo wsbrd -F dut.conf -F na/chan-plan-2-dh1cf.conf -F sec/revoke.conf

> Step 1: After all devices have joined, the certificate chain for Test Bed
> Devices I and J is removed from the trusted store of the Authentication
> Server.

The DUT uses an external AAA server so this operation depends on the test bed
configuration.

> Step 8: Border Router DUT revokes the PMK and PTK from Test Bed Device I

This is performed by the following command using the MAC address of Device I:

    sudo wsbrd_cli revoke 00:00:5e:ef:10:00:00:00

> Step 9: Border Router DUT destroys all GTKs except the currently active GTK,
> reduces the lifetime of the currently active GTK and adds a new GTK

This is performed by the following command without any argument:

    sudo wsbrd_cli revoke

[revoke]: /tools/tbu/dut/sec/revoke.conf

### Powercycle

The test `POWERCYCLE-LBR-1` requires the following operation:

> Step 7: Power the LBR DUT off, wait 2 minutes, and power back up the LBR DUT.

This is achieved by stopping the border router with Ctrl+C, and restarting it
**without** deleting the storage. The full test sequence should look like:

    sudo wsbrd -DD
    sudo wsbrd -F dut.conf -F na/chan-plan-2-dh1cf.conf
    ...
    ^C
    sudo wsbrd -F dut.conf -F na/chan-plan-2-dh1cf.conf

Commit message:

doc: add revoke.bash script to avoid requiring wsbrd_cli as DUT
The rust toolchain and dependencies create some errors on some hosts,
which makes it undesirable to use for certification to prevent any
unnecessary debugging.

Example error triggered on a Raspberry Pi image:

    $ cargo fetch --manifest-path=tools/wsbrd_cli/Cargo.toml
        Updating crates.io index
    error: Unable to update registry `crates-io`

    Caused by:
      failed to fetch `https://github.com/rust-lang/crates.io-index`

    Caused by:
      network failure seems to have happened
      if a proxy or similar is necessary `net.git-fetch-with-cli` may help here
      https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html#netgit-fetch-with-cli

    Caused by:
      SSL error: 0xffff8780 - SSL - The peer notified us that the connection is going to be closed; class=Ssl (16)

tools/tbu/dut/README.md, after:

# Device Under Test (DUT) instructions for the Silicon Labs Wi-SUN Linux Border Router

Before starting a test, make sure to delete any information stored from previous
executions:

    sudo wsbrd -DD

The border router should be started with 2 configuration files, one for the
base parameters, and one for the PHY parameters. For example:

    sudo wsbrd -F dut.conf -F na/chan-plan-2-dh1cf.conf

Configuration files are provided in [`tools/tbu/dut/`](/tools/tbu/dut):

  - [`dut.conf`](/tools/tbu/dut/dut.conf) contains the base parameters to be
    used with all tests. It should be edited according to the test bed
    configuration.
  - Sub-directories are provided for [North America][na], [Brazil][bz], and
    [Japan][jp]. Each file corresponds to a PHY definition from the Wi-SUN
    Conformance Tests Specification.

[na]: /tools/tbu/dut/na
[bz]: /tools/tbu/dut/bz
[jp]: /tools/tbu/dut/jp

Once the test has run, the border router can be stopped using Ctrl+C.

### IPv6 addresses

The Border Router DUT IPv6 addresses can be retrieved using:

    ip -6 addr show dev tunwsdut

### Multicast ICMPv6

The test `MULTICAST-ORIGINATOR-LBR-1` requires the following operation:

> Step 2: Vendor puts Border Router DUT into a mode where it would transmit a
> multicast ICMPv6 or UDP frame.

This is performed by the following command:

    ping -c 1 -I tunwsdut ff03::1

### GTK Lifecycle

The test `SEC-LIFECYCLE-2` requires the following operations:

A special configuration file [`sec/lifecycle.conf`][lifecycle] is provided to
configure the key lifetimes. It should be added to the command which starts the
border router, for example:

    sudo wsbrd -F dut.conf -F na/chan-plan-2-dh1cf.conf -F sec/lifecycle.conf

[lifecycle]: /tools/tbu/dut/sec/lifecycle.conf

### Pairwise Key Revocation

The test `SEC-REVOKE-GTK-1` requires the following operations:

A special configuration file [`sec/revoke.conf`][revoke-cnf] is provided to
configure the key lifetimes. It should be added to the command which starts the
border router, for example:

    sudo wsbrd -F dut.conf -F na/chan-plan-2-dh1cf.conf -F sec/revoke.conf

> Step 1: After all devices have joined, the certificate chain for Test Bed
> Devices I and J is removed from the trusted store of the Authentication
> Server.

The DUT uses an external AAA server so this operation depends on the test bed
configuration.

> Step 8: Border Router DUT revokes the PMK and PTK from Test Bed Device I

A dedicated script [revoke.bash][revoke-sh] is provided, it can be run with
the MAC address of Device I as argument:

    sudo sec/revoke.bash 00:00:5e:ef:10:00:00:00

> Step 9: Border Router DUT destroys all GTKs except the currently active GTK,
> reduces the lifetime of the currently active GTK and adds a new GTK

A dedicated script [revoke.bash][revoke-sh] is provided, it can be run without
any arguments:

    sudo sec/revoke.bash

[revoke-cnf]: /tools/tbu/dut/sec/revoke.conf
[revoke-sh]:  /tools/tbu/dut/sec/revoke.bash

### Powercycle

The test `POWERCYCLE-LBR-1` requires the following operation:

> Step 7: Power the LBR DUT off, wait 2 minutes, and power back up the LBR DUT.

This is achieved by stopping the border router with Ctrl+C, and restarting it
**without** deleting the storage. The full test sequence should look like:

    sudo wsbrd -DD
    sudo wsbrd -F dut.conf -F na/chan-plan-2-dh1cf.conf
    ...
    ^C
    sudo wsbrd -F dut.conf -F na/chan-plan-2-dh1cf.conf
